add a glossary (#73)
anbox-cloud/discourse-docs: reference/glossary.md

- [Node controller](#ams-node-controller)
- [Platform](#platform)
- [Prometheus](#prometheus)
- [Raw container](#raw-container)
- [Regular container](#regular-container)
- [STUN/TURN server](#stun/turn-server)
- [Scrcpy](#scrcpy)
- [Session](#session)
- [Snap](#snap)
- [Software Rasterization](#swrast)
- [Stream agent](#stream-agent)
- [Stream gateway](#stream-gateway)
- [Streaming stack](#streaming-stack)
- [Swrast](#swrast)
- [Ubuntu Advantage for Applications](#ubuntu-advantage-for-applications)
- [Ubuntu One](#ubuntu-one)
- [Watchdog](#watchdog)
- [Web dashboard](#web-dashboard)
- [WebRTC](#webrtc)

[/Details]

## Definitions

<a name="addon"></a>
### Addon

A piece of code that can be used to extend and customise images in Anbox Cloud.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/addons/25293.

<a name="aws"></a>
### Amazon Web Services (AWS)

A cloud platform provided by Amazon that can be used to host Anbox Cloud.

See [the AWS website](https://aws.amazon.com/).

<a name="ams-node-controller"></a>
### AMS Node Controller

A service that runs on every LXD node and puts the appropriate firewall rules in place when a container is started or stopped.

<a name="ams-sdk"></a>
### AMS SDK

> An SDK that provides Go code for connecting to AMS through the exposed REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An SDK that provides Go language bindings for connecting to AMS through the exposed REST API.
```

See [AMS SDK](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/anbox-cloud-sdks/17844#ams-sdk).

<a name="anbox"></a>
### Anbox

> An open-source project that provides a container-based approach to boot a full Android system on a regular GNU/Linux system. Anbox Cloud uses Anbox.

Author: Can we add more information on how Anbox Cloud uses Anbox? I didn't find anything.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to specify this here ? The open source Anbox and Anbox Cloud are starting to diverge in quite a few ways now

Author: I think it's important to point out that there is something called Anbox and that it is different from Anbox Cloud, and to do that, we need to explain how they differ.

Reviewer: Having an explanation here is great as this is a thing which is often misunderstood (and the naming doesn't make it any better). Reality is that Anbox and Anbox Cloud are completely independent things. They don't share nothing but the name "Anbox" and similar ideas. Technically Anbox Cloud is not using Anbox. We need to make this clear in here.

Author: Change to something like:
"A component of Anbox Cloud that facilitates booting an Android system on a regular GNU/Linux system. While the concepts of the Anbox component in Anbox Cloud are similar to the [Anbox open source project](https://github.com/anbox/anbox), the Anbox open source project is an independent project that is not related to or used in Anbox Cloud.

See [the Anbox project on GitHub](https://github.com/anbox/anbox).

<a name="aam"></a>
### Anbox Application Manager (AAM)

> A utility (`aam`) that is installed in the Android image and that can be used to back up and restore application data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A utility (`aam`) that is installed in the Anbox image and that can be used for various thigns including back up and restore of Android application data.
```

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/back-up-and-restore-application-data/24183.

<a name="aar"></a>
### Anbox Application Registry (AAR)

A central repository for applications created in Anbox Cloud. Using an AAR is very useful for larger deployments to keep applications in sync.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/anbox-application-registry-aar/17761.

<a name="anbox-cloud"></a>
### Anbox Cloud

A rich software stack that enables you to run Android applications in the cloud for all kinds of different use cases, including high-performance streaming of graphics to desktop and mobile client devices.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-anbox-cloud/17802.

<a name="anbox-cloud-appliance"></a>
### Anbox Cloud Appliance

A self-contained, single-machine deployment variant of Anbox Cloud.

See [Variants](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-anbox-cloud/17802#variants).

<a name="amc"></a>
### Anbox Management Client (AMC)

> The command line interface that is used to manage the Anbox Management Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command line interface that is used to manage the Anbox Management Service (AMS).
```

<a name="ams"></a>
### Anbox Management Service (AMS)

> The service that handles all aspects of the application and container life cycle in Anbox Cloud. AMS is responsible for managing containers, applications, addons, updates and more, ensuring high density, performance and fast container startup times.

Reviewer: I would add a sentence explaining that AMS is using etcd as database and is connecting to LXD over its REST API

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/anbox-management-service-ams/24321.

<a name="anbox-platform-sdk"></a>
### Anbox Platform SDK

> An SDK that provides support for developing custom platform plugins, which allows cloud providers to integrate Anbox with their existing infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An C/C++ SDK that provides support for developing custom platform plugins, which allows users to integrate Anbox with their existing infrastructure.
```

See [the Appium website](http://appium.io/).

<a name="application"></a>
### Application

One of the main objects of Anbox Cloud. An application encapsulates an Android app and manages it within the Anbox Cloud cluster.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-applications/17760.

<a name="application-container"></a>
### Application container

A container that is created when launching an application.

See [Application containers vs. raw containers](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-containers/17763#application-vs-raw).

<a name="application-manifest"></a>
### Application manifest

A file that defines the attributes of an Anbox Cloud application.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/application-manifest/24197.

<a name="base-container"></a>
### Base container

A temporary container that is used when bootstrapping an application. It is automatically deleted when the application bootstrap is completed.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-containers/17763.

<a name="boot-package"></a>
### Boot package

The package to launch in an application container once the system has booted.

<a name="bootstrap-process"></a>
### Bootstrap process

> The process that builds the application and synchronises it across all LXD nodes in the cluster when creating an application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process that builds and optimises the application to run on Anbox Cloud
```
The bootstrap process doesn't technically sync an application on the whole cluster, LXD does that automatically when a new container is launched on a node (which is why the first container created for an application takes longer to boot)

See [Bootstrap process](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-applications/17760#bootstrap).

<a name="container"></a>
### Container

One of the main objects of Anbox Cloud. Every time you launch an application or image, Anbox Cloud creates a container for it. Every container provides a full Android system.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-containers/17763.

<a name="core-stack"></a>
### Core stack

> The core parts of the Anbox Cloud stack that are required for all deployments.

Author: Is this true that all parts of the core stack are required for all deployments? Can we add more information on what parts those are?

Reviewer 2: Correct. A bare minimum deployment of Anbox Cloud would require:
 - ams
 - etcd
 - at least 1 LXD worker
 - 1 node controller per LXD worker
 - easyrsa

Author: So the core stack contains all these services(?) ?

Reviewer 2: Correct

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-anbox-cloud/17802.

<a name="coturn"></a>
### Coturn

An open-source implementation of a STUN/TURN server needed for WebRTC to work behind NATs and firewalls.

See [the Coturn project on GitHub](https://github.com/coturn/coturn).

<a name="grafana"></a>
### Grafana

A tool for analytics and monitoring that allows to query and visualise the metrics of the cluster or individual containers and generate alerts based on the data.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/use-grafana/17787 and [the Grafana website](https://grafana.com/).

<a name="gpu"></a>
### Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)

A specialised processor that is designed to accelerate image processing and graphics rendering for output to a display device.

<a name="ha"></a>
### High availability (HA)

> The characteristic of a system to continuously be available without failing for a higher-than-normal period of time.

Reviewer 2: While that definition is correct, I would be a bit more specific to what it means in our case here. In our case HA means avoiding having a single point of failure by having replicas of every service

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/enable-high-availability/17754.

<a name="hook"></a>
### Hook

Code that is invoked at different points in time in the life cycle of a container. Hooks are part of addons.

See [Hooks](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/addons/25293#hooks).

<a name="image"></a>
### Image

> The base for a container, which contains all necessary components like Anbox or the Android root file system. Anbox Cloud provides images based on different Android versions and different architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base for a container, which contains all necessary components like Anbox or the Android root file system. Anbox Cloud provides images based on different Android and Ubuntu versions and different architectures.
```

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/manage-images/17758 and https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/provided-images/24185.

<a name="instance-type"></a>
### Instance type

An abstraction for a set of resources that is available to a container.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/instance-types/17764.

<a name="juju"></a>
### Juju

A charmed operator framework that helps you deploy, integrate and manage applications across multiple environments. Anbox Cloud is installed using Juju. The Anbox Cloud Appliance uses Juju under the hood.

See [the Juju website](https://juju.is/).

<a name="lxd"></a>
### LXD

A system container and virtual machine manager that offers a unified user experience around full Linux systems running inside containers or virtual machines. Anbox Cloud is based on LXD.

See [the LXD website](https://linuxcontainers.org/).

<a name="monitoring-stack"></a>
### Monitoring stack

> The part of the Anbox Cloud stack that provides monitoring functionality.

Author: If I understood it correctly, the monitoring stack is an optional part of the core stack? (Which contradicts the definition of the core stack ;) ).

Reviewer 2: It's a recommended but indeed optional part of the stack. You can still run containers without it

Reviewer: I would like to rephrase this here and make the "monitoring stack" a generic thing which can be implemented in different ways. We as Anbox Cloud team don't provide such a thing but can make recommendations what to use.

See [the Nagios website](https://www.nagios.org/).

<a name="nats"></a>
### Neural Autonomic Transport System (NATS)

An open-source messaging system that the components of the streaming stack use to communicate.

See [the NATS website](https://nats.io/).

<a name="platform"></a>
### Platform

An abstraction layer that is provided by Anbox to access the hardware resources of the host system from the Android system. Anbox Cloud supports three platforms: null (without rendering), webrtc (WebRTC) and swrast (software rendering).

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/anbox-platforms/18733.

<a name="prometheus"></a>
### Prometheus

An open-source application used for event monitoring and alerting, which records real-time metrics about system events.

See [the Prometheus website](https://prometheus.io/).

<a name="raw-container"></a>
### Raw container

A container that is created when launching an image. It runs the full Android system, without any additional apps installed.

See [Application containers vs. raw containers](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-containers/17763#application-vs-raw).

<a name="regular-container"></a>

> ### Regular container

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explain this ? I feel like it just brings more confusion, it's the same as the definition for `container`

Author: Currently we are making a distinction between regular containers and base containers, both in the docs and in the container type. Can we get rid of that distinction?

Reviewer 2: Not really, we have to make a distinction between a base container and a regular container. However in the context of the glossary, `container` and `regular container` are the same type of containers
Although it makes sense to specify both, considering `container` is the generic term and `regular container` is just there to contrast the definition of `base container`
After consideration, let's leave it as is

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-containers/17763.

<a name="scrcpy"></a>
### Scrcpy

An open-source screen mirroring application that allows displaying and controlling Android devices from a desktop computer.

See [the scrcpy project on GitHub](https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy).

<a name="session"></a>
### Session

The interaction between a streaming client and the application container during streaming. A session contains, among other information, user data and application information and provides an entry point for both the client and the container to start the signalling process.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-application-streaming/17769.

<a name="snap"></a>
### Snap

A software package for a desktop, cloud or IoT application that is easy to install, secure, cross‐platform and dependency‐free.

See [the Snapcraft website](https://snapcraft.io/).

<a name="swrast"></a>
### Software Rasterization (swrast)

An LLVMpipe-based software rendering platform that is useful for visual tests but does not provide audio input/output.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/anbox-platforms/18733.

<a name="stream-agent"></a>
### Stream agent

> The software running on a server equipped with a GPU connected to Anbox Cloud, which serves as an entry point that the stream gateway can connect to.

Reviewer: It doesn't necessarily need to be a server with a GPU. The stream agent connects AMS to the stream gateway and allows distribution from the gateway to multiple independent AMS installations.

> The software running on a server equipped with a GPU connected to Anbox Cloud, which serves as an entry point that the stream gateway can connect to.

Reviewer: It doesn't necessarily need to be a server with a GPU. The stream agent connects AMS to the stream gateway and allows distribution from the gateway to multiple independent AMS installations.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-application-streaming/17769.

<a name="stream-gateway"></a>
### Stream gateway

The central component that connects clients with stream agents. Its role is to choose the best possible region depending on the user location and server capacities.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/about-application-streaming/17769.

<a name="streaming-stack"></a>
### Streaming stack

> A collection of components designed to run containers on GPU-equipped machines and stream their visual output to clients via WebRTC.

Reviewer: Not necessarily GPU equipped machines. It can run on machines without GPUs too using software rendering

<a name="ubuntu-advantage-for-applications"></a>
### Ubuntu Advantage for Applications

Canonical’s service package for Ubuntu that provides enterprise security and support for open-source applications, with managed service offerings available. Note the difference between Ubuntu Advantage for Infrastructure and Ubuntu Advantage for Applications; Anbox Cloud requires a Ubuntu Advantage for Applications subscription.

See [Ubuntu Advantage](https://ubuntu.com/support).

<a name="ubuntu-one"></a>
### Ubuntu One

A central user account system used by all Canonical sites and services. You need a Ubuntu One account to purchase the Ubuntu Advantage for Applications subscription that is required to run Anbox Cloud, and to log into the web dashboard.

See [Ubuntu One](https://login.ubuntu.com/).

<a name="watchdog"></a>
### Watchdog

A software component that monitors the app in a container and terminates the container if the app crashes or is moved to the background.

See [Watchdog settings](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/application-manifest/24197#watchdog).

<a name="web-dashboard"></a>
### Web dashboard

> A web GUI for Anbox Cloud from where developers can create, manage and stream applications from their web browser. Previously called Dev UI.

Author: Is "previously called" okay, or do we need to state that it is a replacement?

Reviewer 2: I'm even wondering if it's worth mentioning the Dev UI at all. It was phased out quite a few releases ago
Technically speaking though, it's a full blown out replacement, it's a different name, code, deployment method, and feature set

Author: "Dev UI" still occurs in the docs, but maybe it would be better to get rid of it there than to mention it here?

Reviewer 2: I vote to get rid of it in the docs. I think it would mostly create confusion, what do you think @adglkh @morphis ?

Reviewer: Yes, lets get rid of "Dev UI" as term.

- [Scrcpy](#scrcpy)
- [Session](#session)
- [Snap](#snap)
- [Software Rasterization](#swrast)
- [Stream agent](#stream-agent)
- [Stream gateway](#stream-gateway)
- [Streaming stack](#streaming-stack)
- [Swrast](#swrast)
- [Ubuntu Advantage for Applications](#ubuntu-advantage-for-applications)
- [Ubuntu One](#ubuntu-one)
- [Watchdog](#watchdog)
- [Web dashboard](#web-dashboard)
- [WebRTC](#webrtc)

[/Details]

## Definitions

<a name="addon"></a>
### Addon

A piece of code that can be used to extend and customise images in Anbox Cloud.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/addons/25293.

<a name="aws"></a>
### Amazon Web Services (AWS)

A cloud platform provided by Amazon that can be used to host Anbox Cloud.

See [the AWS website](https://aws.amazon.com/).

<a name="ams-node-controller"></a>
### AMS Node Controller

A service that runs on every LXD node and puts the appropriate firewall rules in place when a container is started or stopped.

<a name="ams-sdk"></a>
### AMS SDK

An SDK that provides Go language bindings for connecting to AMS through the exposed REST API.

See [AMS SDK](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/anbox-cloud-sdks/17844#ams-sdk).

<a name="anbox"></a>
### Anbox

> A component of Anbox Cloud that facilitates booting an Android system on a regular GNU/Linux system. The concepts of the Anbox component in Anbox Cloud are similar to the [Anbox open source project](https://github.com/anbox/anbox), but the Anbox open source project is an independent project that is not related to or used in Anbox Cloud.

Author: Does this make sense?

Reviewer: Perfect, thanks!

<a name="image"></a>
### Image

The base for a container, which contains all necessary components like Anbox or the Android root file system. Anbox Cloud provides images based on different Android and Ubuntu versions and different architectures.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/manage-images/17758 and https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/provided-images/24185.

<a name="instance-type"></a>
### Instance type

An abstraction for a set of resources that is available to a container.

See https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/instance-types/17764.

<a name="juju"></a>
### Juju

A charmed operator framework that helps you deploy, integrate and manage applications across multiple environments. Anbox Cloud is installed using Juju. The Anbox Cloud Appliance uses Juju under the hood.

See [the Juju website](https://juju.is/).

<a name="lxd"></a>
### LXD

A system container and virtual machine manager that offers a unified user experience around full Linux systems running inside containers or virtual machines. Anbox Cloud is based on LXD.

See [the LXD website](https://linuxcontainers.org/).

<a name="monitoring-stack"></a>
### Monitoring stack

> A reference implementation for basic monitoring functionality based on Prometheus, Grafana and Telegraf. Anbox Cloud does not provide a full monitoring solution, but the reference implementation can be used as a starting point for implementing a custom solution.

Author: Does this make sense?

Reviewer: Perfect, thanks!
